Add (un)subscription to PluginContext (#1792)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/plugins/plugin-context/accessors/subscription/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: subscription
---

# `subscription`

Adds or removes [real-time subscriptions](/core/2/guides/essentials/real-time) from the backend.

## `register`

> Registers a new realtime subscription on behalf of a client. The subscription works exactly like the one created by the [`realtime:subscribe` API endpoint](/api/controllers/realtime/subscribe/index.md). The notifications will be sent to the connection identified by the `Request` object passed to the method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registers a new realtime subscription on behalf of a client. The subscription works exactly like the one created by the [`realtime:subscribe` API endpoint](/api/controllers/realtime/subscribe/index.md). The notifications will be sent to the connection identified by the connection identifier passed to the method.
```
